[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Bodies need bones,
history needs facts.
Same thing.
It's one thing for
people in the UFO field
to say I know that the
government's got information
they're covering up and I
know that the Air Force has
this information, the CIA
has got that information,
and the Navy's got this.
It's great to say all of
that, but it doesn't really
get you very far if you
don't have documentation
to back your claim up.
And the problem that researchers
had and UFO advocates had
for many, many years, we're
talking in the 1950s, 1960s,
and most of the 1970s, is
that they didn't really
have a lot of documentation
to say, aha, here,
this is our proof.
What you had
instead was a number
of people who would get some
inside information, leaks, here
and there.
Believable leaks,
yeah, but not proof.
And meanwhile, all the
government agencies
in the United States would
say, look, we don't really
investigate UFOs.
It's not a thing that we do.
We just don't have any evidence
to show that this is serious.
You folks are just creating
a subject out of nothing.
There's nothing here for you.
And this went on
for years and years,
and it was a back
and forth argument.
And UFO researchers
didn't really
have a way to get past that
roadblock, until they did.
And that thing that got
them past the roadblock
was the significant
strengthening
of the Freedom of
Information Act.
Now, the FOIA,
Freedom of Information
was passed originally
in the 1960s.
But it didn't really get teeth--
like for real teeth--
for researchers
to use to dig into until 1974
after Watergate, after Vietnam,
after the United
States really went
through its own political
trials and crises.
And one of the
results of that was
to strengthen the
laws allowing citizens
to petition their
government for government
documents of public interest,
to put it quite simply.
And that was a really major
win for the people, by the way.
Other nations now have FOIA
laws on the books as well,
but when the US put
this through in 1974
it was a really
important moment.
And I think to the surprise
of a lot of pundits and people
like observing all this
was how right away the most
significant topic that
was requested was UFOs.
Wow.
That just blew everyone away.
You got all of these
UFO researchers
coming out of the
woodwork petitioning
the FBI for
documents, petitioning
the CIA for
the Army and the Navy and all
the military branches, the Air
Force, all of them
for documents.
Even the NSA.
The NSA in the late '70s
was subject to a lawsuit
by a citizen UFO group.
A true David versus
Goliath situation
if there ever was one.
And by the way, the NSA
never released almost even
a single word on it that
wasn't just blacked out.
In fact, all of the
NSA documents for years
were completely unavailable.
And the only thing that was
available to researchers
was the judge's ruling
as to why the NSA didn't
have to release any documents.
And most of that
ruling was blacked out.
It was insane.
Nevertheless, amidst
all those difficulties,
thousands upon thousands of
pages of declassified documents
came to light on
the matter of UFOs.
Documents that had formerly
been classified, and now
were available for the public.
All in the late '70s
and in the early '80s,
it just came out like a flood.
There wasn't a lot of really
good journalistic newspaper
coverage on this unfortunately.
Of course, who's
surprised by that?
But nonetheless, the
information came out.
And it made a very big
impact among those people
who were researching UFOs.
So for example,
what it exposed was
a major lie, a series of
lies by all the government
agencies that had said,
well, we don't research UFOs.
Government agencies like
the CIA, like the FBI,
like the Navy and all the
other branches of the services.
Turns out, oh yeah, they studied
UFOs and were very concerned
about them.
It was during the late '70s
that we learned about all
of these violations
of sensitive airspace
by these unknown objects
doing the impossible.
Unknown objects shaped like
discs, shaped like spheres,
shaped like triangles sometimes
coming in over sensitive areas,
hanging out for a while.
And then easily evading
jet and aircraft
interceptors when they
go in to investigate.
Like happened over
and over again,
and we learned about all of
this finally in the late 1970s.
It didn't prove that UFOs
were extraterrestrial.
There wasn't any one document
that said, hey, boss,
the aliens have just landed.
However, when you take the top
10, the top 20, the top 50,
the top 100 of these
documents and you
read them one after the
next, what you do get
is proof, absolute proof.
Not maybe, not a little bit,
not sort of, but proof that
the UFO phenomenon during
those years of the Cold War,
1940s and '50s and '60s and
'70s, that the UFO phenomenon
was taken very seriously by
the United States military.
And also by militaries
of other nations,
because some of those
reports came out
through America's FOIA.
We learned that
jets were regularly
scrambled to investigate.
One of the more
shocking documents
was a short one from
the summer of 1950
detailing airspace violations
over the Hanford Nuclear
Facility in the
state of Washington.
Now, Hanford turned
out to become
one of the most toxic,
polluted nuclear sites
in the entire United States.
But in 1950, it was going
full on as a nuclear plant.
And it turns out that
summer, according
to this, just one of many
of these FOIA documents,
this one details how
objects round in form
have been seen over
the Hanford plant.
It talks about how Air Force
fighters attempted interception
with negative results.
It talks about how anti-aircraft
battalions have been alerted.
It talks about how all
of these other agencies
have been alerted to it.
How local commanders are quote
"perturbed" by implications
of the phenomena.
It talks about how the
investigation is continuing,
although we don't
get any conclusion as
to what that investigation
actually told us.
Can you just imagine
what the public reaction
would have been in 1950 if
that one memo had been released
to the public at the time?
But the public didn't
know about it at the time
because it was all being denied.
The government, the military
was lying year in year
out to the public on
the matter of UFOs.
And that is undeniable.
That's not hypothesis,
that's fact.
And it was only
in the late 1970s
that memos like that one
were released to the public
long after all the
excitement had died down.
And honestly, it came out
and just dropped silently
into the bucket like all
the other ones have done.
It's an amazing thing like
when I look back and think
of the power of these reports.
But it really is possible.
It turns out that
it's really possible
to keep this whole thing under
wraps as long as you just
keep the reports hidden for
a long enough period of time.
And when the truth
comes out, like you
would think that the
public would get really
worked up about having been
lied to after all these years.
But once again, there
really was no reaction.
But there are so many of
these types of reports.
Another one describes an
object seen over the Oak Ridge
facility in Tennessee, another
key atomic nuclear site where
an engineer at Oak Ridge
sees a fighter aircraft high
up in the sky circling around.
And then later
sees a black object
in the area where
the jet had been.
And this object then zooms
across the sky incredibly fast
and stops.
And then is joined by
2 more similar objects.
And then they zoom off to
the east instantaneously
and they're gone.
Like that was 1953.
What does that?
These are the types of
reports that came out
through Freedom of Information.
And again,
individually, they don't
prove that all UFOs
are extraterrestrial.
But they're really
difficult to explain away.
You know, you get many of
these reports describing
visual plus radar
sightings of objects.
You get many reports
describing objects
with a particular interest
in nuclear technology,
and an interest in sensitive
military installations
in general.
That's what these military
reports are all about.
I find the military reports to
be particularly interesting,
not because they're
intrinsically better
than a report by an ordinary
person or a citizen.
They're really not.
But I find them interesting
because with a military report,
they can leave a paper trail.
And also, a military
report means
that the military that you
pay for with your tax dollars
is responsible for
dealing with this
as a potential national
security issue.
And when you have a government
that is telling you year
after year that there's
nothing to these UFOs,
but a branch of the government,
that is the military,
is responding to these UFOs,
well, then we have a problem,
don't we?
We've got a discrepancy.
So all of these Freedom
of Information Act reports
are important to us,
not because they prove
all UFOs are extraterrestrial.
We need to get past that.
I mean, they suggest it
perhaps, you can argue that.
But the reason that they're
really important to us
is because they do prove
that the United States
government has lied for
years about its supposed
lack of interest in UFOs.
Nowadays, we're kind
of getting the idea
through a lot of statements
recently from the United States
Navy and elsewhere that, well,
the government and the military
are maybe interested
in these UFOs or UAPs
as they call them now.
But it's easy to forget for
decades and decades and decades
the government
categorically denied it.
And even now they're still--
they've got a long
way to go before we
come to any amount of openness
and honesty about the subject.
But it's through FOIA,
it's through the documents
that citizens really
can make a case.
When you're discussing
this with friends
who may be skeptical
about the subject,
the important thing
always is to refer to it
as factually demonstrable.
And fortunately for people
who follow the UFO subject,
there is more than enough
in the released documents
from their very government.
The United States
government and military
have thousands of
pages of documents
attesting to the reality
of this phenomenon.
Whatever it is,
whoever it belongs to,
it clearly is something very
significant, very powerful.
I would say revolutionary in its
implications for our society.
[MUSIC PLAYING]